Today let's take a look at texture painting the face of the character.
Now here's a funny story.
After I stopped recording yesterday the phone rang and I got pulled away.
And then when I finally came back to the computer I just saved Blendr and closed it.
And what do you think happened.
I lost all of that paint information I did on the torso.
You'd think I'd know by now.
So what I did is I went back and read did that for the torso and also did the legs and the fingers.
So just learn from my mistake.
Save BUSCHER and save your image with alt s when you are doing texture painting and in Blender.
Now I had mentioned Gomorrha from Guardians Of The Galaxy some time ago and here she is.
I figured I might as well use some of this skin tone.
Some of these colors if I can for the face of our character here.
What's interesting is this is actually not her.
This is an image of a one sixteenth scale model from hot toys a figurine of her.
They did an amazing job.
Now I would prefer to use an image of her from real life but all the images I could find from the movie
were in very light blue light or red light or very contrast.
It was really difficult to find just kind of a standard lighting situation in that movie.
I try and use real world reference when I can.
But this particular instance I just couldn't find anything.
So let's give this a try.
Let's zoom in here to the character's face and let's see if we can do.
So the face on the U.V. map is over here on mine so we can keep an eye on that as we go here.
Now this particular image I think has some Browns in here.
And that's what I've been doing to some Browns around here.
So we'll try and do that as well.
I'll make sure I'm on the skin texture paint slot and I'll go back over the Tools tab.
And this is the palette.
The color palette.
I've been using for the skin here and it's got some good greens and browns here that we sampled off
the image of the Guana.
So we'll continue to use some of these maybe adding some from this image but really this is more for
me just to look at and get a sense of what's happening on the face.
So let's start I'm going to start here with that darker shadow color that I've been using and I'm not
sure let's just see what it looks like.
OK I've got that.
I will also go ahead and turn on symmetry.
We might as well do that and I'll come in here and start with some of the darker areas like maybe underneath
the mouth underneath the nose up in the eye sockets here.
So let's see what we can do with that.
So I'll bring the strength back down and the jitter and spacing is pretty low so I think I'll leave
it there.
And let's just see what we can do.
Let's do a few tests and see what happens here.
For this at least right now let me try it with the texture off and see what happens here.
I will also press alt F on the center of the character's face so we center up around that.
And now I can tumble around that point that helps.
And in addition I'm going to go ahead and turn on face masking and with the L key select the head and
I'll go ahead and select the ears as well.
Maybe I will go ahead and select the body as well just in case anything moves down into there.
All right so now let's try this.
I just didn't want to accidentally pain on the eyeball here
and I think I'll also use this darker color to try and delineate the lines coming down from the nose.
See what I can do here.
And also around that edge of the nose back in here.
And even some of this shadow underneath the cheekbones I think maybe we could try that.
If I can get it placed in the right place here let me make sure that the specular is on for both of
my lights and they are to see if it helps if I turn one off.
Now doesn't help much.
Well let me try it like this and see what I can do with this.
You can see the texture a little better so what's going on here now is I've got the specular turned
off for the front light but turned on for the back light.
So let me just try it like this for a few minutes and see if this helps at all so I can just see the
textures a little better.
I'm going also put some shadow in the ears up here and maybe some down beneath the ear where it contacts
connects with the head maybe even down underneath there.
You can put a little shadow at the base of the skull right back here and maybe even just a touch right
between the eyes here.
I'm looking at this right here.
You see how that works.
And then I'll come back in with some highlights on the other on either side at the Browns.
We'll see if that works at all.
All right.
So we've got some basic shadows laid down.
I should also probably do that down here as well underneath the neck.
Let me try that.
OK.
Let's take a look at this.
Now let's come in and work on some of the highlights.
Well let me see over here.
I'm going to select I'm going to press the key and see what kind of colors I can find over here.
This is kind of nice.
And we try that this looks a little bit more like what I'm looking for now with this.
I think I want to go ahead and turn that texture back on me grab that texture.
And we've got it on random brush mapping.
Let me just turn up the jet or just a little bit turn up the spacing a hair like that.
Let's try that.
So we get a little bit of texture in the highlights and let's just test this and see something like
that may be a little much.
Let's back that off a hair.
Let's try that
something like that.
Yeah OK.
A little bit more on the tip of the nose there.
We've got some pretty strong highlights here into the I am going to try and replicate that like that.
And along that cheekbone
some interesting stuff going on above the eyes so I'll try that and way up here as well.
I like that.
Let's take a look at that little part under the nose.
It looks like I could maybe just do this.
Try that again.
Something like that.
We've got to highlight on the chin try and capture that and some highlights around here like this.
Let's take a look at the lips.
This is quite an interesting green.
Here do I want that green on this.
Let me try this one.
I think this is a color that we got off at the eco wanna let me try this one here.
And once again I will go ahead and keep the texture on here just to test this
it looks like lipstick on let's try and widen that out.
That may be too dark.
Yeah.
Let's try and let's go back right.
So let's look for something that isn't quite as dark.
How about this here.
Let's try that.
That may be a little bit better yeah that darker color really screamed.
Lipstick.
Let's try that.
All right.
Now what let's do is come back here with that lighter color and what I'm going to do is turn off the
texture map and turn the spacing down looks like it's already there.
And I'm going to come in here with a really fine brush and get some of that straight.
There.
See if that's at all possible and maybe Let's see
bring the strength up here.
Something like that.
Let's turn that specular highlights back on over here for that front light.
Let's take a look at that.
Not too bad.
I think what I need to do is go through and give it a little bit more of that texture that I was doing
and maybe even some more of these highlights like from here.
Let's try this.
I'm going to put that texture back on.
And when I just test this let me increase the strength.
And what's pretty striking to see what happens here so I'm going to go through and maybe do a few highlights
like this.
I feel like that shadow underneath the cheek is a little strong.
I'm going to flip the pen over and see if I can erase that back just a hair.
So we're getting there.
I think there's more I can do here.
I may bring in the smear or soften brush.
Let's just see if this does anything or it just destroys everything I've already done.
And we go on I also just smeared that a bit.
So I think there's more I can do.
But I think that's getting there.
I think it will blend in fairly well with the rest of the character.
Let me turn off face masking here.
There might be an opportunity to come in with more of the highlights that I used in here up on the face.
But I think that's a good start.
Oh and also let me come over here and press alt s and I'm going to save this image and I'm also going
to press control or command ass to save the scene and make sure that all of our images do not have an
asterix here and that they've all been saved so you can see kind of where we've come from since the
beginning here.
The base color of the character and then we worked on our details for the straps and the tunic here.
We did a little bit more with the straps for the for the boots and the gloves.
And then we worked on our skin here.
So I think the next thing we should work on is baking out all of these texture paint slots.
All of these layers out to a single image.
Now I do need to work on the eyes.
I think the eyes are going to need to be their own objects so that we can have a map specifically for
them because I think the U-V islands for the eyes here on this map are going to be too small and the
pupils stand a very good chance of being pixilated and blurry.
So maybe in the next one we'll split the eyes out and bring in a texture for the pupils.
But then after that I think we'll be ready to bake out our color map and then we can go and test that
out with our normal map and our ambient occlusion map in unity.
So those are hopefully coming up next.